IV. The Cause of the Troubles
In order to come to grips at once with the question of time expenditure in all
its actuality, I must choose an individual case for examination. I can
only deal with one case, and that case cannot be the average case, because there
is no such case as the average case, just as there is no such man as the average
man. Every man and every man's case is special. But if I take the case of a
Londoner who works in an office whose office hours are from 10 to 6, and who
spends 50 minutes morning and night in traveling between his house door and his
office door, I shall have got as near to the average as facts permit. There are
men who have to work longer for a living, but there are others who do not have to
work so long. Fortunately, the financial side of existence does not interest us
here. For our present purpose, the clerk at a pound a week is exactly as well off
as the millionaire in Carlton House Terrace. Now the great and profound
mistake which my typical man makes in regard to his day is a mistake of general
attitude, a mistake which vitiates and weakens two-thirds of his energies and
interests. In the majority of instances, he does not precisely feel a passion for
his business. At best, he does not dislike it. He begins his business
functions with reluctance, as late as he can, and he ends them with joy, as early
as he can, and his engines while he is engaged in his business are seldom at
their full horsepower. I know that I shall be accused by angry readers of
traducing the city worker, but I am pretty thoroughly acquainted with the
city, and I stick to what I say. Yet in spite of all this, he persists in
looking upon those hours from ten to six as the day, to which the ten hours
preceding them and the six hours following them are nothing but a prologue
and epilogue. Such an attitude, unconscious though it be, of course kills
his interest in the odd sixteen hours, with the result that, even if he does
not waste them, he does not count them, he regards them simply as margin. This
general attitude is utterly illogical and unhealthy, since it formally gives
the central prominence to a patch of time and a bunch of activities which
the man's one idea is to get through and have done with. If a man makes two-
thirds of his existence subservient to one-third, for which admittedly he has
no absolutely feverish zest, how can he hope to live fully and completely? He
cannot. If my typical man wishes to live fully and completely, he must, in his
mind, arrange a day within a day. And this inner day, a Chinese box in a larger
Chinese box, must begin at six p.m. and end at ten a.m. It is a day of sixteen
hours, and during all these sixteen hours he has nothing whatever to do but
cultivate his body and his soul and his fellow men. During those sixteen hours he
is free. He is not a wage earner, he is not preoccupied with monetary cares, he
is just as good as a man with a private income. This must be his attitude, and his
attitude is all-important. His success in life, much more important than the amount
of estate upon which his executors will have to pay estate duty, depends on it.
What? You say that full energy given to those sixteen hours will lessen the
eight? Not so. On the contrary, it will assuredly increase the value of the
business eight. One of the chief things which my typical man has to learn is
that the mental faculties are capable of a continuous hard activity. They do not
tire like an arm or a leg. All they want is change, not rest, except in sleep. I
shall now examine the typical man's current method of employing the sixteen
hours that are entirely his, beginning with his uprising. I will merely
indicate things which he does and which I think he ought not to do, postponing
my suggestions for planting the times when I shall have cleared, as a settler
clears spaces in a forest. Injustice to him, I must say, that he wastes very
little time before he leaves the house in the morning at nine-ten. In too many
houses he gets up at nine, breakfasts between nine-seven and nine-nine-and-a-
half, and then bolts. But immediately he bangs the front door, his mental
faculties, which are tireless, become idle. He walks to the station in a
condition of mental coma. Arrived there, he usually has to wait for the train. On
hundreds of suburban stations every morning you see men calmly strolling up
and down platforms, while railway companies unblushingly rob them of time,
which is more than money. Hundreds of thousands of hours are thus lost every
day simply because my typical man thinks so little of time that it has never
occurred to him to take quite easy precautions against the risk of its loss.
He has a solid coin of time to spend every day. Call it a sovereign. He must
get change for it, and in getting change he is content to lose heavily.
Supposing that in selling him a ticket, the company said, We will change your
sovereign, but we shall charge you three halfpence for doing so. What would my
equivalent of what the company does when it robs him of five minutes twice a day?
You say I am dealing with minutiae. I am, and later on I will justify myself. Now
will you kindly buy your paper and step onto the train? End of chapter.